
SameGame General Contents Readme:

Within Contents we find the sounds and artwork files needed to play
SameGame.  For example, each of the Poke, Balls, and Toxic directories
contain the artwork, sound, and configuration files needed to play
that particular flavour/version of SameGame.

The artwork files which *must* be present are: background.tga,
extra.tga, tiles.tga, and title_pic.tga.  If the game uses mats, each
of these is stored in Mat0.tga, Mat1.tga, Mat2.tga, etc.  If the game
uses animation then animate.tga must be present. See Readme.Art for
details about artwork.

As well, each of the Poke, Balls, and Toxic directories *must* contain
a configuration file sg.cnf.  To implement one of these flavours of
SameGame, copy the appropiate sg.cnf file up into the directory
containing SameGame.cof IF YOU ARE RUNNING SAMEGAME FROM A PC.  (If
SameGame is on a DVD, it expects to find the config file at:
/udf/nuon/sg.cnf.  See Readme.DVD for more info.)

SameGame looks for the following sound files: click.raw,
changetile.raw, bigdelete.raw, bigdeleteall.raw, bonus.raw, and
nobonus.raw.  If SameGame can't find or load one of these files, it
will not try to play it during the game.  Thus a particular sound
effect can be effectively turned off by removing the corresponding
.raw file from the directory.  See Readme.Snd for details about sound.

To create a new version of SameGame you will need to have at least the
4 artwork .tga files plus a config file.  (Mats and sound effects are
nice too, but the game will run without them.)  The sg.cnf files
accompanying the Poke, Toxic, and Balls versions of SameGame are
heavily commented and so can act as a prototype for any new config file.

SameGame now has the capacity to animate a group just before it
disappears. To add animation, create the necessary artwork in
animate.tga which must be a 352x272 pixel picture and set the
NUM_ANIM_STEPS variable in sg.cnf appropiately.  More information is
found in Readme.ani. Also look at the Toxic Avenger and Balls versions
of SameGame as they now have animation.
